---
layout: post
title: "My First Eulogy"
date: 2015-09-11 07:55:04 -0400
comments: true
categories: 
---

I've been wanting to write a eulogy for my grandfather since the day of his
death, August 20th, 2015. For some insight into my writing process, I tend to
procrastinate an incredible amount while my conscious mind comes of with bon
mots that "I can't wait to incorporate into the final product." Ugh.

<a data-flickr-embed="true" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/67828440@N05/20712358293/in/dateposted-public/" title="grandaddy &amp; chloe"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5637/20712358293_1ab495a0d1_n.jpg" width="320" height="240" alt="grandaddy &amp; chloe"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<!-- more -->

With this topic, one so deeply personal to me, I find myself overwhelmed by the
tsunami of things that I want to say and what I want to convey. I want to do
honor to him as a person, to what he means to me, and to help me process the
closest death I've yet experienced in my thirty-six years on this earth. But in
the interest in preserving as much of my memory of him as I can I'm going to
enumerate everything as quickly as possible.

I learned so much from my grandfather, Jim Bowen Crumbley. I only realized the
depth  of his legacy for me due to the time I've spent reflecting at his death. 

I virtually grew up with my grandparents from birth to age eight years as we
lived a couple of blocks away from each other in New Orleans. My Dad captained a
shrimp boat for a few of those years and any time he was offshore on a two week
expedition, we'd live at my grandparents house.

One of my earliest memories with Grandaddy is being tasked with bringing him his
morning coffee. They lived on MacArthur Boulevard and Memaw would hand me his
coffee cup and I'd stare that thing down as if my life depended upon it. Each
wiggle and perturbation of coffee would slow me down as I tried to gentle the
liquid's agitation.

I remember sleeping with them above / on their pillows. I remember Grandaddy
teaching me to shoot rubber bands. I remember playing on his CB radio. I
remember going to get ice for Memaw and Grandaddy when I stayed in a hotel room
with them at age three or four. I remember sleeping in the floor board of one of
the back passenger seats (and fitting in there) on a trip. I remember sleeping
above the back seat wedged against the back window. I remember Grandaddy, Mama
Price and Memaw encouraging me to throw my comfort blanket in the fire which I
gladly did. Thank goodness Memaw ran and grabbed it out right afterwards as I
was asking for it only a few hours later. During that same visit, I remember
Grandaddy teaching me to climb the pecan tree.

I learned about the value of hard work and the importance of keeping my
possessions nice as I watched Grandaddy meticulously scrap red mud off his shoes
to keep them nice. I heard about stories like the following.

I learned that Grandaddy would gladly walk five or six miles to visit friends.
He would lay down on the middle of  Hwy 138 to warm himself up on chilly nights
when walking back home. He once gave directions back to Atlanta to a lost
airplane pilot who landed on Hwy 138. He always knew his directions.

I learned what love is from him. There's many people who've helped teach me what
it means to love. To forgive. Every Christmas holiday, the joy Grandaddy exuded
handing out his envelopes full of money to each family remember reminds me how
much I'm going to miss him. The forgiveness in his heart that shown through his
eyes when I fried his computer's motherboard installing RAM backwards (this was
way after I should've known better ðŸ˜Š). The pride in his smile when he shook my
hand on the day of my senior piano recital and slipped me a $50 bill. The
conviction in his words and actions when he taught me these last years of what
"in sickness and in health" actually means standing by his wife of sixty-two
years. The sweet giggle of victory when he beat me at checkers because he had
forgotten the rules of chess. The pure pleasure and sheer fear of speed I
learned while riding with him and from watching him race go-karts. Hearing his
story of middle school shenanigans where the girls convinced him to climb out of
his room.

Learning of segregation and the racial dynamics that existed without question in
his youth blew my educated mind and helped cement my feelings on inequality and
power dynamics and the importance of doing what I can to make a difference and
rectify wrongs. Hearing of his wreck as a thirteen year old while driving around
an older African-American worker. He worked at his Uncle's grocery store.
Hearing about his youth growing up in Brunswick, Georgia as his mother and
father worked and contributed for the WWII effort.

Eating late night desserts with him and Memaw. Watching him drive a tractor at
breakneck speeds while bush hogging the pasture. Watching him watch the
construction of the go-kart track. Watching him play with my kids and sing him
songs to them.

His last gift to me is the realization that the joys of life that he's enabled
via love and support for both me, my parents and my family are what make life
feel too short. There's another level of gratitude for which I should
continually strive. There's another level of selflessness that I haven't even
begun to appreciate. 

I won't regret the time spent with my kids, their kids or my family. And they
won't either. I miss you Grandaddy.

<iframe src="//player.vimeo.com/hubnut/album/3532229?color=44bbff&amp;background=000000&amp;slideshow=0&amp;video_title=1&amp;video_byline=1" width="400" height="300" frameborder="0" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>
